@c This file is meant to be included other texinfo file
@c Pdf action configurations
@c $Id: pdfAction.texinfo,v 1.11 2007/06/29 08:37:49 zhanglei Exp $


@cindex Fitter action configuration, RooRarFit
@cindex Action configuration
@cindex Configuration, fitter action
@cindex RooRarFit action configuration
@node pdfAction
@section Fitter Actions

After every pdf is created,
fitter action section is used to direct the fitter to finish its jobs.
The default action section, @t{[Fitter Action]},
can be changed by command line option,
@cindex command line option, -A
@cindex -A, command line option
@t{-A "<fitter action section>"}.
@c
The default for all pdf actions are no action.
It is advisable to have several sections with one action
per section, and then run the fitter with @t{-A} option to specify which
action to fulfill.
@c
@c In the following sub-sections, we will explain all fitter actions.
@c By default, all actions are disabled unless explicitly requested.

Each action works like a pipe: it has input from other action or initial
values, it then outputs param/root files as
other actions' input or final results for user to review.
Each action initializes its params by reading in intermediate param file,
and each action also has configs to override those intermediate params
after reading them in.

The param value overriding order is: Initial values from pdf config sections
will be overridden by input param file (except for pdfFit action if
@t{prePdfReadParams} and @t{prePdfReadSecParams} are default);
then values from input param file are overridden by 
values specified in action section and param section with config
@t{xxxReadSecParams},
finally, the constant attributions will be overridden/specified
with configs @t{postPdfFloat}, @t{preMLFix}, and @t{preMLFloat}
in pdf config and/or action sections.
Before params are saved into param files, they will be set to constant.

@menu
* pdfFitAction::
* toyStudyAction::
* mlFitAction::
* scanPlotAction::
* projPlotAction::
* contourPlotAction::
* sPlotAction::
@end menu

@c pdfFit Action
@include pdfFitAction.texinfo

@c toyStudy Action
@include toyStudyAction.texinfo

@c mlFit Action
@include mlFitAction.texinfo

@c scan plot Action
@include scanPlotAction.texinfo

@c projection plot Action
@include projPlotAction.texinfo

@c contour plot Action
@include contourPlotAction.texinfo

@c sPlot Action
@include sPlotAction.texinfo
