@c This file is meant to be included other texinfo file
@c pdfFit action
@c $Id: pdfFitAction.texinfo,v 1.11 2010/06/15 13:10:03 fwilson Exp $


@anchor{sec_pdfFit}
@cindex pdfFit Action
@cindex action, pdfFit
@cindex RooRarFit pdfFit action
@node pdfFitAction
@subsection pdfFit Action

pdfFit action is to fit pdfs to particular datasets to get their
parameters. Pdfs, datasets, etc., can be plotted after fitting.

The default param input is the initial values after all PDFs are created.
Configs
@t{prePdfReadParams} and @t{prePdfReadSecParams}
can be used to change the initial values.
The output param file is the default input for toy study and ML fit.
One can override any fitted values from this action by some configs
listed below.
ROOT file containing plots produced by this action
is for user to review the fitting.
As always, log file also provides useful information.

@itemize @bullet
@cindex pdfFit, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, pdfFit
@item @t{pdfFit = <no|yes>}@*
To enable this action, this config must be explicitly set to @t{yes}
(default @t{no}).

@cindex pdfToFit, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, pdfToFit
@item @t{pdfToFit = <pdfName1> [<pdfName2> ...]}@*
To fit given pdfs only,
list them in this config,
and all other pdfs will be ignored.
(default list is null, fit all PDFs).
This config is useful when you are fine-tuning parameters of
one or two pdfs and do not want to run fitting on every pdf.

@cindex prePdfReadParams, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, prePdfReadParams
@item @t{prePdfReadParams = <no|yes|paramFileID>}@*
To override initial param values after PDFs are created for pdfFit action,
this config must be explicitly set to @t{yes}
(default @t{no}).
The param file name will be automatically generated based on this config.
You can specify @uref{#item_paramFileID, @t{paramFileID}}
to change its default name.

@cindex prePdfReadSecParams, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, prePdfReadSecParams
@item @t{prePdfReadSecParams = <no|yes|secName>}@*
If set to @t{yes} (default @t{no}),
just before pdfFit action,
the fitter will try to override the params with values
found in the action section.
Instead of @t{yes} or @t{no}, you can also give it a section name,
and then the fitter will try to read values from that section first.
This config is useful when you want to override any initial values
before pdfFit.

@cindex postPdfMakePlot, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, postPdfMakePlot
@item @t{postPdfMakePlot = <no|yes|rootFileBaseName>}@*
To get pdf plots after pdfFit,
this config must be explicitly set to @t{yes}
(default @t{no}).
The root file name will be
@t{<configFile>.<fitterName>.pdfPlot.<actionName>.root}
unless the token is actually a root file name.

@cindex postPdfReadSecParams, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, postPdfReadSecParams
@item @t{postPdfReadSecParams = <no|yes|secName>}@*
If set to @t{yes} (default @t{no}),
just after pdfFit is done,
the fitter will try to override the params with values
found in the action section.
Instead of @t{yes} or @t{no}, you can also give it a section name,
and then the fitter will try to read values from that section first.
This config is useful when you want to override any values got
by the fit with those you think are more appropriate,
for example, those got from control samples.

@cindex postPdfWriteParams, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, postPdfWriteParams
@item @t{postPdfWriteParams = <no|yes|paramFileID>}@*
To output pdf parameters after pdfFit,
this config must be explicitly set to @t{yes}
(default @t{no}).
The param file name will be automatically generated based on this config.
You can specify @uref{#item_paramFileID, @t{paramFileID}}
to change its default name.

@cindex fitRange, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, fitRange
@item @t{fitRange_<obsName> = <Min> <Max>}@*
It sets @b{pdfFit} ranges for observable @t{<obsName>}.
If not specified, the range will be set to the full ranges
when it is created.
This config will affect all @t{pdfFit}, if it is needed for just one
or two PDFs, please move this config to individual PDF config sections.

@cindex plotRange, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, plotRange
@item @t{plotRange_<obsName> = <Min> <Max>}@*
It sets plot ranges for observable @t{<obsName>}.
If not specified, the range will be set to the full ranges
when it is created.
This config will affect all @t{pdfFit}, if it is needed for just one
or two PDFs, please move this config to individual PDF config sections.

@cindex pdfFitNumCPU, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, pdfFitNumCPU
@item @t{pdfFitNumCPU = <1-8>}@*
The number of CPUs (cores) to be used in the pdf ml-fitting. The fitter will
try to parallelise the fit over the available cores. (default @t{1}).

@end itemize

@cindex prePdfReadParams, pdf action
@cindex pdf action, prePdfReadParams
@t{prePdfReadParams}
has been dropped.
The reason for this is that pdfFit is really the very
first step in the fitting procedure and you really
want to make sure everything you put here is what you mean.
So place the initial values into the config file and make sure
they are reasonable.
With another file overriding the config file,
I can only see more trouble and subtlety.
@c
A corollary is that never change the intermediate param files,
and if you want to change the param values in those files,
change them in the config file.

@cindex example, pdfFit action
An example is shown below:
@example
[Pdf Fit Action Config]
// pdfFit options
pdfFit = yes
//pdfToFit = deSig deBkg
postPdfMakePlot = yes
postPdfWriteParams = yes
@end example
