@c This file is meant to be included other texinfo file
@c rarAdd configs
@c $Id: rarAddConfig.texinfo,v 1.4 2007/06/29 08:37:50 zhanglei Exp $


@anchor{sec_Add}
@cindex rarAdd Configs
@cindex configuration, rarAdd
@cindex pdf configuration, rarAdd
@node rarAddConfig
@subsection rarAdd Configs

@t{rarAdd} is a wrapper of @t{RooAddPdf/RooAddModel}
to build composite pdf as a sum of PDFs.
There are @t{N-1} free coefficients with @t{N} components,
or @t{N} coefficients if the composite pdf is extended.
@t{RooAddModel} can only be non-extended pdf.

@itemize @bullet
@cindex configStr, rarAdd config
@cindex configStr, AddPdf
@cindex configStr, AddModel
@item @t{configStr = AddPdf ["<pdf Title>"]}
@item @t{configStr = AddModel ["<pdf Title>"]}@*
This config specifies the pdf type is @t{AddPdf/AddModel}.
This config is required to have this pdf configured as @t{rarAdd}.

@cindex Comps, rarAdd config
@item @t{Comps = <compPdfName1> [<compPdfName2> ... <compPdfNameN>]}@*
This config specifies components for @t{rarAdd},
and is mandatory for any pdf inherited from @t{rarCompBase}.

@cindex Coeffs, rarAdd config
@item @t{Coeffs = [fullNamed] <coeff1> [<coeff2> ... <coeffM>]}@*
This config specifies coefficients for all its components.
If @t{M} is equal to @t{N}, it is extended,
or @t{M} should be @t{N-1}, which means the pdf created is not extended.
If the first arg is @t{fullNamed},
all the following configs are supposed to be full names.
@c
This config is mandatory.

@item @t{<coeff1> = AbsReal Def}
@item @t{...}
@item @t{<coeffM> = AbsReal Def}@*
All the coeffs can be defined as @t{RooRealVar} or @t{RooFormulaVar}.
See @uref{#item_createVar, createVar} for more info on
how to create those variables.

@end itemize

@cindex example, rarAdd
@cindex example, AddPdf
@cindex example, AddModel
An example is shown below:
@example
[fisBkg Config]
configStr=AddPdf
Comps=fisBkgC fisBkgT
Coeffs=fracC
fracC= T "f_{C}" 0.9 L(0 - 1.)
@end example
