@c This file is meant to be included other texinfo file
@c rarDecay configs
@c $Id: rarDecayConfig.texinfo,v 1.4 2007/06/29 08:37:50 zhanglei Exp $


@anchor{sec_Decay}
@cindex rarDecay Configs
@cindex configuration, rarDecay
@cindex pdf configuration, rarDecay
@node rarDecayConfig
@subsection rarDecay Configs

@t{rarDecay} is a wrapper of @t{RooBCPGenDecay/RooBDecay/RooDecay} to build
BCPGenDecay / BDecay / Decay Model.

@itemize @bullet
@cindex configStr, rarDecay config
@cindex configStr, BCPGenDecay
@cindex configStr, BDecay
@cindex configStr, Decay
@cindex BCPGenDecay, configStr
@cindex BDecay, configStr
@cindex Decay, configStr
@item @t{configStr = BCPGenDecay ["<pdf Title>"]}
@item @t{configStr = BDecay ["<pdf Title>"]}
@item @t{configStr = Decay ["<pdf Title>"]}@*
This config specifies the pdf type is @t{BCPGenDecay}, @t{BDecay} or @t{Decay}.
This config is required to have this pdf configured as @t{rarDecay}.

@cindex x, rarDecay config
@item @t{x = RealVar Def}
@cindex tau, rarDecay config
@item @t{tau = AbsReal Def}
@cindex model, rarDecay config
@item @t{model = <resolutionModelName>}
@cindex decayType, rarDecay config
@item @t{decayType = <typeName>}
@cindex dm, rarDecay config
@item @t{dm = AbsReal Def}@*
@cindex dgamma, rarDecay config
@item @t{dgamma = AbsReal Def}
@cindex tag, rarDecay config
@item @t{tag = AbsCat Def}
@cindex w, rarDecay config
@item @t{w = AbsReal Def}
@cindex dw, rarDecay config
@item @t{dw = AbsReal Def}
@cindex mu, rarDecay config
@item @t{mu = AbsReal Def}
@cindex S, rarDecay config
@item @t{S = AbsReal Def}
@cindex C, rarDecay config
@item @t{C = AbsReal Def}
@cindex blindStatus, rarDecay config
@item @t{blindStatus = <blind|unblind>}
@cindex blindString, rarDecay config
@item @t{blindString = <unique blind string>}
@cindex blindValues, rarDecay config
@item @t{blindValues = <Cvalue> <Cscale> <Svalue> <Sscale>}@*
@t{x} is the default observable of the pdf.
No derived dependent is allowed in rarDecay
so please make sure @t{x} is observable defined in datasets.
@t{tau} is the average @emph{B0} lifetime.
@t{model} is the resolution model.
@t{decayType} can be @t{SingleSided}, @t{DoubleSided} (default), @t{Flipped}.

For @t{BCPGenDecay} and @t{BDecay},
@t{dm} is the mixing frequency;
@t{dgamma} is the difference in @emph{B0}/@emph{B0}bar width;
@t{tag} is the flavor tag;
@t{w} is the mistag rate;
@t{dw} is the mistag rate difference between @emph{B0}/@emph{B0}bar;
@t{mu} is the difference in tagging efficiency between @emph{B0}/@emph{B0}bar;
@t{S} is @emph{CP} sine parameter,
and @t{C} @emph{CP} cosine parameter.
@c
The default @t{blindStatus} is @t{blind}, to unblind,
@t{blindStatus} must be set to @t{unblind}.
@t{blindString} must be set to a unique string for blinding.
@t{blindValues} specifies blinding values and scales for @t{C} and @t{S},
(default .2 .2 .2 .2).

All the `AbsReal' parameters can be defined as
@t{RooRealVar} or @t{RooFormulaVar},
the `AbsCat' parameter can be defined as any @t{RooAbsCategory}.
See @uref{#item_createVar, createVar} for more info on
how to create those variables.

@end itemize

@cindex example, rarDecay
@cindex example, BDecay
An example is shown below:
@example
@end example

@c @cindex f0, rarDecay config
@c @item @t{f0 = AbsReal Def}
@c @cindex f1, rarDecay config
@c @item @t{f1 = AbsReal Def}
@c @cindex f2, rarDecay config
@c @item @t{f2 = AbsReal Def}
@c @cindex f3, rarDecay config
@c @item @t{f3 = AbsReal Def}@*
@c @t{f0}, @t{f1}, @t{f2}, @t{f3} is ....,
