@c This file is meant to be included other texinfo file
@c rarUsrPdf configs
@c $Id: rarUsrPdfConfig.texinfo,v 1.3 2007/06/29 08:37:51 zhanglei Exp $


@anchor{sec_UsrPdf}
@cindex rarUsrPdf Configs
@cindex configuration, rarUsrPdf
@cindex pdf configuration, rarUsrPdf
@node rarUsrPdfConfig
@subsection rarUsrPdf

@t{rarUsrPdf} is a wrapper to build user-defined PDF.
So for it to work for user-defined PDF, one needs to modify the source code,
basically file @t{rarUsrPdf.cc} in working release dir.
Please follow instructions at the very beginning of the source file:
@example
// Please change this cc file to make use of your PDF.
// In many cases, you just need to change codes inside marks:
//====================================================================>
//                                                                    v
//                                                                    v
//  and
//                                                                    ^
//                                                                    ^
//====================================================================>
@end example
There are two main parts need to be changed:
@enumerate
@item Include header file of user-defined PDF
@example
//==================================================================>
// Please include your RooFit Pdf header here                       v
// #include "mydir/myPdf.hh"                                        v

//                                                                  ^
//                                                                  ^
//==================================================================>
@end example
@item Create @t{RooAbsReal}'s and @t{RooAbsPdf}
in function @t{rarUsrPdf::init()}
@example
  //==================================================================>
  // change the lines in between the marks as you want                v
  //                                                                  v
  // first get its obs
  _x=createAbsReal("x", "observable"); assert(_x);
  // Config pdf params
  // instead of a b c etc, you can give them more meaningful names and titles
  // for example
  // _a=createAbsReal("mean", "#mu", 0, -10, 10);
  // _b=createAbsReal("sigma", "#sigma", 0, -10, 10);
  // if you give them different names, please use those names
  // in the PDF config sections,
  // for example, a is now mean, b sigma, etc.
  // [myPdf Config]
  // configStr = UsrPdf
  // x = AbsReal Def
  // mean = AbsReal Def
  // sigma = AbsReal Def
  
  // Default param creation
  _a=createAbsReal("a", "a", 0, -10, 10);
  _b=createAbsReal("b", "b", 0, -10, 10);
  _c=createAbsReal("c", "c", 0, -10, 10);
  _d=createAbsReal("d", "d", 0, -10, 10);
  _e=createAbsReal("e", "e", 0, -10, 10);
  _params.Print("v");
  
  // YOU MUST CREATE YOUR PDF AND SET IT TO _thePdf
  // create pdf
  //_thePdf=new myPdf(Form("the_%s", GetName()),_pdfType+" "+GetTitle(),
  // *_x, *_a, *_b, *_c, *_d, *_e);
  //                                                                  ^
  // change the lines in between the marks as you want                ^
  //==================================================================>
@end example
@end enumerate 

Config Directives:
@itemize @bullet
@cindex configStr, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{configStr = UsrPdf ["<pdf Title>"]}@*
This config specifies the pdf type is @t{UsrPdf}.
This config is required to have this pdf configured as @t{rarUsrPdf}.

@cindex x, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{x = AbsReal Def}
@cindex a, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{a = AbsReal Def}@*
or@*
@t{<name_chosen_for_a> = AbsReal Def}
@cindex b, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{b = AbsReal Def}@*
or@*
@t{<name_chosen_for_b> = AbsReal Def}
@cindex c, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{c = AbsReal Def}@*
or@*
@t{<name_chosen_for_c> = AbsReal Def}
@cindex d, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{d = AbsReal Def}@*
or@*
@t{<name_chosen_for_d> = AbsReal Def}
@cindex e, rarUsrPdf config
@item @t{e = AbsReal Def}@*
or@*
@t{<name_chosen_for_e> = AbsReal Def}
@end itemize
@t{x} is the default observable of the pdf.
@t{a} is the ... of the pdf.
@t{b} is the ... of the pdf.
@t{c} is the ... of the pdf.
@t{d} is the ... of the pdf.
@t{e} is the ... of the pdf.
@c
All the variables can be defined as @t{RooRealVar} or @t{RooFormulaVar}.
See @uref{#item_createVar, createVar} for more info on
how to create those variables.

@cindex example, rarUsrPdf
@cindex example, UsrPdf
An example is shown below:
@example
[myPdf Config]
configStr = UsrPdf
x = myObs
a = 36 L(0 - 100)
b = 36 L(0 - 100)
c = 36 L(0 - 100)
d = 36 L(0 - 100)
e = 36 L(0 - 100)
@end example
