\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c $Id: RooRarFit.texinfo,v 1.50 2010/06/15 13:10:02 fwilson Exp $
@c %**start of header

@c All text is ignored before the setfilename.
@setfilename RooRarFit.info

@c Define a new index for options
@defcodeindex op

@c Put everything except function (command, in this case) names in one
@c index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex pg cp

@footnotestyle separate
@setchapternewpage odd
@finalout

@c increasing the allowable interword spacing
@tex
\global\emergencystretch = .9\hsize
@end tex

@c %**end of header

@settitle RooRarFit
@c variables
@set TITLE The RooRarFit Document
@set PAGETITLE  The RooRarFit Document
@set SUMMARY A general ML fitting package based on ROOT/RooFit.
@c for rare @emph{B} decay study
@set AUTHOR Lei Zhang

@c other variables here
@c common url
@ifhtml
@set COMMONURL .
@end ifhtml
@ifnothtml
@set COMMONURL http://rarfit.sourceforge.net
@end ifnothtml
@c RooFit url
@set ROOFITURL http://roofit.sourceforge.net/docs/classref

@c Summary Description and Copyright, for info system
@ifinfo
@value{SUMMARY}
@end ifinfo
@c end of Summary Description and Copyright

@c Titlepage and Copyright, for printed manual
@iftex
@shorttitlepage @value{PAGETITLE}
@titlepage
@title @value{TITLE}
@author @value{AUTHOR}
@end titlepage
@end iftex
@c end of Titlepage and Copyright

@summarycontents
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{TITLE}
@value{SUMMARY}
@end ifnottex

@ifhtml
To download @t{rarFit} and find more information,
please go to @uref{http://sourceforge.net/projects/rarfit, SF.net}.

You can also get a @uref{RooRarFit.pdf, pdf} version of this doc,
and a tutorial (@uref{tutorial/RooRarFit.pdf, pdf},
@uref{tutorial/RooRarFit.ppt, ppt}).
@uref{MyFirstRooRarFit/myFirstRooRarFit-README.txt, MyFirstRooRarFit}
written by Karsten
@html
K&ouml;neke
@end html
is also very helpful to beginners.

Current stable @t{RooRarFit} version:
@t{V00-01-73}

Please check @uref{@value{COMMONURL},
online doc} for the latest stable version

Supported @t{Root} versions: @t{5.26} and later.

Supported @t{BaBar} releases: @t{24.5.6/analysis-52} and up.

This version of RooRarFit has been compiled, linked and run on RH5/SL5
with Root @t{5.26-00} and BaBar release code
@t{24.5.6/analysis-52}. The code should also work with RH4/SL4 and
some earlier versions of Root but this hass not been tested.

@end ifhtml

@menu
* Why::
* Implementation::
* ConfigFile::
* QA::
* Index::
@end menu

@c the body of the document

@c why?
@include why.texinfo

@c implementation
@include implement.texinfo

@c configFile
@include config.texinfo

@c Q and A
@include QA.texinfo

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
you get nothing after @@bye
